In order to understand how information is stored on any blockchain,
we need to understand block and transaction data models.
This will help you build up and structure
your own private blockchain in the following project,
as well as understand how to interact with existing information on blockchains.
Earlier, we saw that blocks contain
a block header with these important pieces of information,
the Previous Block's Hash,
the Time the block was created,
the Merkle Root and the Nonce.
As we've explored before,
the body of the block contains transactions.
In the next several sections,
we'll expand on transaction data models focusing on transaction inputs and outputs,
which will help us understand how to create our own raw transactions.
No matter which blockchain you end up working with,
it's important to remember that blockchains are a transactional system.
Having a good grasp of this information is vital to understanding what's
going on under the hood with any blockchain service you end up working with.